#Migrating From Confluence to Github

**[Mifos](https://mifos.org/){.external-link}** is a US-based non-profit
initiative that stewards the global community that builds the Mifos X
platform which is an open technology platform for financial inclusion
used by financial services providers worldwide, supported by a network
of certified local partners and maintained and extended by a global team
of volunteers. Mifos is setting out to [speed the elimination of poverty
by coordinating a global community that builds, supports, and uses Mifos
X, a free and open source platform that enables financial service
providers to more effectively and efficiently deliver responsible
financial services to the  world's 2 billion poor and unbanked including
my community in Uganda which contributes to my inclination to this
project.

Apache Fineract is a mission-critical enterprise-grade core banking
system that is used by hundreds of institutions serving millings of
clients worldwide. The **[Mifos X web
app](https://demo.openmf.org/){.external-link}** provides an
out-of-the-box product on the top of the platform that can be deployed
or extended to meet the unique needs of a region. The **[user
manual](https://mifosforge.jira.com/wiki/spaces/docs/pages/52035622/User+Manual)** is
a critical piece of documentation for adoption and implementation of
this critical technology. It is not only the primary piece of
documentation to guide end users of the software in configuring the
system and using it on a daily basis, it also serves as a foundation for
any additional organization-specific documentation that an institution
would create for their own staff.

Currently, this manual has outdated screenshots dating all the way back
to 2017 and new features that have not been documented yet. Also the
fact that the manual is generated on Confluence makes it not only
inaccessible offline but also difficult to have discussions before
modifications are applied and therefore there is no absolute control on
changes that are made by contributors. However it makes it easy for
contributors without a programming background to modify and contribute
to the documentation.

Since Mifos has recently began utilizing Github more heavily for issue
tracking in addition to version control, there is less of a need to use
Confluence as a tool for documentation and can benefit from the tighter
integration between Github and Gitbooks. Migrating to Gitbooks will
enable collaboration on a huge scale advocating for discussions and
PR\'s before merging the documentation. This will enforce the
contribution guidelines to the documentation and ensure uniformity and
consistency. Being git-based, one can access it offline by cloning the
repository.


